# Walkthrough


This walkthrough will give a day by day guide to finishing the main storyline 
during the first year of game play. It will also leave you fully prepared to 
complete the optional challenge that becomes available upon completing of the 
game. During the walkthrough I will only account for what needs to be finished 
during that day, leaving the rest of the day to do as you please. You can do as 
much or as little as you desire after completing the tasks for the given day. 
During the course of making the guide I simply went to sleep after completing 
what was required, but you can spend the rest of the day doing whatever you 
want.


## Ring 0, Winter


### Winter, Day 33 (Fri.):

This first thing you need to do when you gain control of your character is 
speak with Dr. Hope. When you have finished speaking with Dr. Hope you will 
need to speak with Gayak. Then once again speak with Dr. Hope, answering yes to 
his question. Afterwards you will need to complete Gayak's farming tutorial, 
which is relatively straightforward. 

### Winter, Day 34 (Sat.):

Upon waking up head downstairs. Once you have finished eating Marlene's meal, 
respond with yes. Afterwards speak with Marlene and you will receive your 
second Seed Bag. Then go into the basement to speak with Gayak, he will give 
you 9 Turnip Seeds. Next walk back up stairs, and when Marcia asks you a 
question respond with yes. When dinner is over Dr. Hope will ask you a question 
respond with yes.

### Winter, Day 35 (Sun.):

Walk out of the Shine Pod and go outside the mansion through the front door. 
You will find Dr. Hope in front of a grave on the other side of a bridge to the 
left of the mansion.


## Ring 1, Spring


### Spring, Day 01 (Mon.):

Use the lift in your room to go up to your farm. When Franco has finished 
speaking with you plant and water your 9 Turnip seeds. When this is complete 
speak with Franco and answer yes. You now need to speak with everyone who has 
come to visit the Easter Ruins. When you have done this speak with Franco once 
again and everyone will take their leave. At this point you are able to save 
your game, and I recommend doing so. You should also backup the save data via 
USB so you don't have to sit through the introduction should you choose to 
restart your game from the beginning. Afterwards head over to the Item Box and 
put away the Power Soles and Snow Soles, as they only take up space in your 
inventory. Next head down to the river on the left side of the Easter Ruins and 
collect the Strange Moss. It will take you three trips to collect all of it. 
Once you have finished collecting the Strange Moss you can speak with Franco to 
learn why you are going to be working the fields at the Easter Ruins. Moonlight 
will not be awake at this point so don't bother visiting him.  After speaking 
with him the only things left to do are watch TV and being to level up your 
tools. You will need to start leveling up your tools as much as possible, 
particularly your Watering Can. This will allow you to use the level 2 Watering 
Can which is essential to maximizing profits and making your farm work much 
easier. Make use of Trick 05 so that you can get additional work done each day. 
Attempt to finish up before 21:00 so that you can get up earlier than usual, 
but if you choose to work late into the night be sure to go to sleep before 
02:00 otherwise you will awaken at 08:00 instead of the normal 06:00.

* Hoe: 114 SP Until Next Level
* Watering Can: 406 SP Until Next Level

### Spring, Day 02 (Tue.):

If you did not wake up early you will be able to watch the Drama Channel, so 
that you have seen everything that will air during weekdays. Afterwards go up 
to your farm and water the Turnips. You should continue to level your tools and 
today you will be able to get a significant amount more watering done due to 
spaces staying tilled. After running out of PP you can use Trick 05 from the 
afternoon bell up until the evening bell. This will restore nearly the entire 
PP bar. Make an effort to be finished before 21:00 so you can wake up early, as 
it makes getting things finished a bit easier.

* Hoe: 69 SP Until Next Level
* Watering Can: 279 SP Until Next Level

### Spring, Day 03 (Wed.):

More people will be on your farm today, both of which will leave after speaking 
with you. Afterwards go down to visit Franco. Answer yes to the question he 
asks and you will receive a free Iron Sickle. Speak with him again to find that 
Million was kind enough to leave you with some Asparagus Seeds. Head up to the 
Storage Area and get the seeds out of the Seed Box. Then go up to your farm and 
plant them. Water both of your crops and continue to focus on leveling up your 
Watering Can. Once you have exhausted all of your PP use Trick 05. Tomorrow you 
should be able to hit level 2 in both your Hoe and Watering Can. I will 
recommend waking up early once again.

* Hoe: 37 SP Until Next Level
* Watering Can: 118 SP Until Next Level

### Spring, Day 04 (Thu.):

Franco will be up on the farm when you wake up. Speak to him if you wish. Then 
water your crops. Afterwards begin to level up your tools, using Trick 05 when 
you have run out of PP. Once you have achieved level 2 in your Watering Can 
focus on leveling the Hoe up to level 2. After you have level 2 in both the 
Watering Can and the Hoe use the Sickle to begin clearing your farm of weeds. 
When you have run out of PP for the second time begin to gather all of the 
rocks into a central location near the Shipping Pods. This will make the 
leveling of your Hammer go much smoother. Don't bother waking up early tomorrow 
it will be raining.

### Spring, Day 05 (Fri.):

Your daily routine of watering your crops is freed up by the rain. Use today to 
continue leveling your Sickle and gather all the rocks into a convenient place 
to break and ship them. You should be able to clear the entire field by around 
12:00. Afterwards go down to your room and start cooking some dishes. Refer to 
the Cooking section to see what is available at this point in the game.

### Spring, Day 06 (Sat.):

You will find Franco waiting in anticipation for the upcoming harvest when you 
go up to your farm. Max will be jogging around between the altars. After you 
water your crops take a quick lap around the farm to see if any new weeds have 
grown or if any rocks have appeared. Afterwards watch the Anime Channel on the 
TV so that you can see all the programming for the current week. Continue to 
utilize Trick 05 so that you get the most out of the days that you are stuck at 
the Easter Ruins. Don't worry about waking up early; it won't change the time 
that you awaken.

### Spring, Day 07 (Sun.):

Today you will harvest your Turnips, Moonlight and Franco will be waiting for 
you in your room. Speak with Franco and answer yes to his question. Then water 
your Asparagus and take a lap to clean up your field. Use up your remaining PP 
on leveling the Watering Can. You can then ship all of the Turnips. Now speak 
with Franco and answer yes. Then speak with Dr. Hope and answer yes.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
End of Week 1.

Tools and Items Attainable:
---------------------------
01) Power Soles
02) Snow Soles
03) Doctor's WC
04) Iron Hoe
05) Seed Bag (2x)
06) Strange Moss (43x)
07) Iron Sickle

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Spring, Day 08 (Mon.):

When the tour of town is over go up to your farm and plant the Asparagus Seeds 
that were given to you by Marcia. Put off watering them for the time being 
until you get your Level 2 Watering Can. After planting the Asparagus Seeds you 
can put away all of your items so that you can collect the Strange Moss by East 
Lake in two trips instead of three. When you have finished collecting the 
Strange Moss make your way into town. First thing you will want to do is go to 
the Shop-a-Million and purchase the Iron Axe. Then feel free speak with 
whomever you like until 16:00. At 16:00 go into Masami's Restaurant / Bar and 
speak with Masami. If this is your first time speaking with her you will need 
to exit and walk back into the bar. Then speak with her again to receive the 
Level 2 Watering Can. When you get back to your farm put away the Doctor's WC 
and take out Masami's WC. You should also take out the Iron Axe as well. Now 
water your Asparagus and clean up your field. Ship all bundles of wood that 
appear when chop a fallen tree limb while cleaning your field. Use all 
remaining PP on your Watering Can.

### Spring, Day 09 (Tue.):

When you wake up watch the Cooking Channel and make all the dishes available at 
this point. Then go up to your farm and ship your Asparagus and water your 
crops if it isn't raining. Clear your farm of anything that may have appeared 
overnight. Head into town if you feel like socializing, but you can also try to 
get in some exploring to familiarize yourself with where the Gathered Items are 
located.

### Spring, Day 10 (Wed.):

After shipping the Asparagus and bundles of Wood you should have around 2600G 
which isn't a bad start. Water your crops and use as much PP as possible before 
heading into town. You will want to purchase the Iron hammer, 49 Strawberry 
Seeds, 20 Cucumber Seeds, 20 Cabbage Seeds, 5 Pansy Seeds, 5 Tulip Bulbs, and 5 
Potato Seeds. Next go to Dr. Hope's mansion and use the Shine Pod to fully 
restore your PP. Now head back to your farm and plant all of the seeds. You can 
now break up all the rocks on your field and ship the Stone that is created. 
When you have finished breaking up all the rocks you can pat down any tilled 
plots that have no seeds planted. Wake up early tomorrow.

### Spring, Day 11 (Thu.):

Water all of your crops and continue to pat down tilled plots until none are 
left. Then take a lap around your field and clean it up. You can now begin to 
level up your Hammer and Hoe by tilling a plot of land and then patting it down 
with the hammer. When you run out of PP begin to use Trick 10 as opposed to 
Trick 05 as it is more efficient. You should be able to use Trick 10 twice 
before going to sleep. Get up early tomorrow to continue leveling your tools.

* Hoe: 1145 SP Until Next Level
* Watering Can: 1112 SP Until Next Level
* Hammer: 267 SP Until Next Level

### Spring, Day 12 (Fri.):

Today will be another normal day at the farm. Water your crops and then clean 
up your fields. Continue to level your tools and utilize Trick 10. Using Trick 
10 twice during the day will be sufficient. Wake up early as tomorrow will be 
fairly busy.
 
 * Hoe: 1022 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 924 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 144 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 13 (Sat.):

 Ship the Asparagus that has re-grown. Then water your crops and clean up your 
 field. Today will be another day of leveling your tools, try and get in two 
 uses of Trick 10 if possible. Wake up early because tomorrow will be a 
 maintenance day.

 * Hoe: 897 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 742 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 19 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 14 (Sun.):

 Go up to your farm and ship your Asparagus that had re-grown today. Then water 
 your crops and clean up your field. When you have finished use up your 
 remaining PP to level up your Hammer and Hoe. Next you should head into town to 
 purchase the Iron Sickle from the Shop-a-Million. Afterwards go to Dr. Hope's 
 mansion to receive your maintenance. Then head back to the farm and continue to 
 level up your Hammer and Hoe. Upon exhausting your PP use Trick 10 and continue 
 working on leveling your tools. As usual you can wake up early.

 * Hoe: 769 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 565 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 1890 SP Until Next Level

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 2.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 01) Seed Bag
 02) Strange Moss (35x)
 03) Iron Axe 
 04) Masami's WC
 05) Iron Hammer
 06) Iron Sickle
 07) Seed Bag (3x)
 08) Harvest Basket

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Spring, Day 15 (Mon.):

 Ship the Potatoes you have planted. Today was a rainy day freeing up any 
 watering that needed to be done. Otherwise start the tool leveling for the day 
 as it will be early with nothing else to do. When you are finished go and watch 
 the Cooking Channel. As usual cook anything that has become available to you. 
 Then head into town. Use Trick 10 and visit Dr. Hope if you wish. I purchased 5 
 Cabbage Seeds to fill the plots that Potatoes occupied. Next you can go to the 
 Shop-a-Million to purchase the Scale Pack, Boomerang, and Water Pistol. 
 Afterward go back to your farm and plant the Cabbage Seeds. You can then get 
 your Scale Pack out of the Item Box and head to the Mushroom Forest 1 to 
 collect some Fly Agaric. Then head back and ship the contents of your Scale 
 pack. Use your remaining PP to level your tools. I chose to wake up early.

 * Hoe: 685 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 565 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 1805 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 16 (Tue.):

 Water your crops and clean up your field. Afterwards begin leveling up your 
 tools. Try to get in two uses of Trick 10 before going to sleep. Continue to 
 wake up early.

 * Hoe: 556 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 387 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 1675 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 17 (Wed.):

 Ship the Asparagus that has re-grown. Next water your crops and clean up the 
 field. Continue to level up your tools and upon finishing use the Herbal 
 Channel to ship your flowers. Next you can head into town and socialize, but be 
 sure to get in at least two uses of Trick 10. As usual choose to wake up early.

 * Hoe: 427 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 210 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 1546 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 18 (Thu.):

 The other field of Asparagus will be ready for harvest today. Ship them, water 
 your crops and clean up your field. If you have kept up with cleaning up the 
 field your Axe should be around Level 2 at this point. Use the rest of the day 
 to level up your tools, with two uses of Trick 10. Wake up early tomorrow.

 * Hoe: 301 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: 28 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 1420 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 19 (Fri.):

 Water your crops and clean your field. Continue to level your tools and then 
 head into town. Use Trick 10 and speak with whomever you choose while waiting 
 for Shop-a-Million to open. When the shop opens purchase all 6 Harvest Baskets. 
 Afterwards continue the leveling up of your tools with at least two uses of 
 Trick 10. You can wake up early tomorrow.

 * Hoe: 172 SP Until Next Level
 * Watering Can: MAX!
 * Hammer: 1291 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 20 (Sat.):

 Ship your Cabbage and Cucumber, then water all of your crops as well as the 
 spaces the Cabbage were on. Then clean up your field and level your tools. Head 
 into town to visit the Shop-a-Million, while waiting you can use Trick 10. When 
 it does open go in and purchase 20 Cabbage Seeds. Go back to your farm and 
 plant them. Continue to level your tools today, using Trick 10 at least twice.
 I continued to wake up early.

 * Hoe: 43 SP Until Next Level
 * Hammer: 1161 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 21 (Sun.):

 Ship the Asparagus that have re-grown and then put away all of your Seed Bags 
 so you have room for the ore that you will collect later today. Then water your 
 crops, clean your field, and use the remaining PP to level your tools. 
 Afterwards head to Dr. Hope's for maintenance. When that is finished head into 
 Heartflame Cave A and open the Grain Key Door. Smash all of the rocks you see 
 while in the cave. If you find any Crimson Stones or Ochre Stones save them in 
 your backpack so they turn into Plain Ore. Then go to Heartflame Cave B and 
 find the Blue Jewel and two Yellow Jewels in the blue chests. You will want to 
 save the Plain Ore in case you fail to complete an event later in the game. 
 When you get back to your farm put away the Grain Family Key, the Jewels, and 
 all but the smallest stack of Plain Ore. This way you can get some Plain Ore on 
 your Other Shipped Items list and still start saving. Use your remaining PP to 
 level your tools and then go to sleep. You should have MAX! in both the Hoe and 
 Watering Can either today or later in the week. Wake up early if you want to.

 * Hoe: MAX!
 * Hammer: 1046 SP Until Next Level

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 3.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 01) Scale Pack
 02) Boomerang
 03) Water Pistol
 04) Harvest Basket (6x)
 05) Grain Family Key
 06) Plain Ore
 07) Volcano Ore
 08) Crimson Stone
 09) Ochre Stone

 Jewels Attainable:
 ------------------
 01) Blue Jewel
 02) Yellow Jewel
 03) Yellow Jewel

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Spring, Day 22 (Mon.):

 Ship the Asparagus, water all the crops, and do a lap to clean up your field. 
 Then use all remaining PP to level your Hammer. Afterwards head into town to 
 utilize Trick 10 before going into smash rocks and collect ore in the cave 
 system. After finishing work in the cave use Trick 10 before heading back to 
 your farm to continue leveling your Hammer. When you run out of PP watch the 
 Cooking Channel and make all dishes available. Afterwards head to bed and get 
 up early.

 * Hammer: 932 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 23 (Tue.):

 Water all of your crops and clean up the field. Use the remainder of your PP to 
 level up the Hammer. When finished go down to your room and ship the flowers. 
 Now go into town and use Trick 10. Smash all rocks in the cave and use Trick 10 
 before heading back to the farm. Continue leveling the Hammer; you should be 
 able to make it back to town to use Trick 10 a second time. Take all of the 
 Plain Ore and store it in the Item Box, but ship all Volcano Ore. Wake up early 
 tomorrow for the first harvest of the Strawberries.

 * Hammer: 770 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 24 (Wed.):

 Harvest all of your Strawberries and Cucumber. Then be sure to water all of 
 your crops so that you can continue to harvest the Strawberries daily. When 
 finished use Trick 10 and head into the cave to collect Plain Ore and level up 
 the Hammer. As usual ship all Volcano Ore and store all of the Plain Ore. 
 Continue to wake up early for the harvesting of the Strawberries.

 * Hammer: 653 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 25 (Thu.):

 Ship all of your Strawberries, Cabbage, and Asparagus. Then water your crops 
 and clean up the field. When finished continue to level the Hammer. Continue to 
 use Trick 10 and collect Plain Ore in the cave. Use Trick 10 and head back to 
 the farm to store the Plain Ore and ship the Volcano Ore. Use the remaining PP 
 to level up the Hammer, then go to bed and wake up early.

 * Hammer: 536 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 26 (Fri.):

 You will again be harvesting your Strawberries and Asparagus. Water your crops 
 and clean up your field. Use all remaining PP on the Hammer and then head into 
 town to use Trick 10. Keep collecting Plain Ore in the cave systems, and use 
 Trick 10 upon finishing. Continue to ship all Volcano Ore and store all of the 
 Plain Ore. Exhaust all remaining PP on the Hammer and go to bed so you can get 
 up early for harvesting.

 * Hammer: 417 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 27 (Sat.):

 Ship your Strawberries, water the crops, and clean up your field. All remaining 
 PP can be used to level up the Hammer. Go to town and use Trick 10 so you can 
 continue to collect Plain Ore and level the Hammer in the cave. When finished 
 with all the rocks head back to the farm to ship the Volcano Ore and store all 
 Plain Ore. Use up your remaining PP on the Hammer, and be sure to wake up early 
 because the Spring Festival is tomorrow.

 * Hammer: 300 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 28 (Sun.):

 Ship all Strawberries and Cucumber, water all crops, and then head to the cave. 
 After finishing with collection of Plain Ore go to Dr. Hope's mansion for 
 maintenance. Answer yes to all of Dr. Hope's questions. Answer yes to Marcia's 
 question. Speak with everyone at the festival and then speak to Marcia again. 
 You will then receive 2 Harvest Baskets and 1 Seed Bag.

 * Hammer: 261 SP Until Next Level

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 4.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 1) Harvest Basket (2x)
 2) Seed Bag

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Spring, Day 29 (Mon.):

 Watch the Cooking Channel and make all dishes available to you at this point. 
 Then ship the Strawberries and Asparagus, water the crops, and clean up the 
 field. Afterwards use all PP on leveling the Hammer. Be sure to ship all 
 flowers before heading into town to use Trick 10. Go to the cave and continue 
 collecting Plain Ore. When finished utilize Trick 10 and go back to the farm. 
 Put away all Plain Ore and ship the Volcano Ore. Use all of your PP on the 
 Hammer before going to sleep and getting up early.

 * Hammer: 142 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 30 (Tue.):

 Ship your Strawberries, Asparagus and Cabbage. Then water all crops, clean up 
 your field, and pat down all extra tilled spaces before leveling your Hammer 
 the normal way. Use Trick 10 and collect Plain Ore. When finished use Trick 10 
 and then return to the farm to ship all Volcano Ore and store the Plain Ore. 
 Use any remaining PP on leveling the Hammer. Go to sleep and get up early.

 * Hammer: 8 SP Until Next Level

 ### Spring, Day 31 (Wed.):

 Ship all the Strawberries, water the crops, and clean up your field. When 
 finished just head directly to the cave now because your Hammer should hit MAX! 
 while in the cave. The rest of your day will be free provided your Hammer is 
 actually at MAX!. Otherwise you will need to continue making use of the 
 schedule that has been used for the past few days. Continue to store all Plain 
 Ore and ship the Volcano Ore. Keep waking up early to get all your work done.

 * Hammer: MAX!

 ### Spring, Day 32 (Thu.):

 Ship the Strawberries and Cucumbers, water your crops, and clean the field. It 
 is important to continue cleaning your field daily while trying to level your 
 Axe and Sickle because it is the only way to do so. When finished you can 
 collect some more Fly Agaric if you so desire. Once you have shipped the Fly 
 Agaric use Trick 10 so that you have enough PP for every rock in the cave 
 system. When finished you can hang around in town to socialize, but be sure to 
 get back in enough time to ship the Volcano Ore and store the Plain Ore while 
 still being able to get up early.

 ### Spring, Day 33 (Fri.):

 Ship your Strawberries and Asparagus. Water your crops, clean up the field, and 
 then go to the cave system. Finish out the collection of Plain Ore for the day 
 and then you are free for the rest of the day. Just be sure to save enough time 
 to put away the Plain Ore and ship the Volcano Ore while still waking up early.

 ### Spring, Day 34 (Sat.):

 Ship all your Strawberries and Asparagus, water the crops, and clean up the 
 field. Feel free to socialize in town before collecting the Plain Ore for the 
 day. Be sure to put away your Plain Ore and ship your Volcano Ore. Make sure 
 you wake up early as tomorrow is the last day of the season.

 ### Spring, Day 35 (Sun.):

 Ship all Strawberries, and feel free to water if you want to. Go down to your 
 room to ship your flowers and then head into the cave to collect some Plain 
 ore. Upon finishing you should go to Dr. Hope's mansion for your maintenance.
 Answer yes to keeping the name. Forte will speak in all caps, essentially 
 making him the robot version of Billy Mays. Speak with Forte and you will be 
 transported to the Easter Ruins. Put away all Plain Ore and ship the Volcano 
 Ore. You can now stop collecting Plain Ore as a part of your daily schedule as 
 close to 100 should be sitting in your Item Box. You should be at MAX! in your 
 Hoe, Watering Can, and Hammer at this point in time. If you have failed to get 
 MAX! in any of these tools you should try to do so as quickly as possible so 
 that you can use the higher level tools as soon as you obtain them. Wake up 
 early because tomorrow will be a busy day.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 End of Week 5.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 ## Ring 1, Summer


 ### Summer, Day 01 (Mon.):

 Put away all of your tools and items so that collection of Strange Moss is 
 easier. Collect the Strange Moss in both locations then take all of your tools 
 and items back out of the Item Box. The only options you should turn on for 
 Forte are the Collect Resources and Water Crops, because you still need to 
 level up your Sickle. You can now head into town to make a large purchase. Buy 
 the following: Balloon Tent, Auto Unit, Bas&Ket 20S, 2 Bas&Ket Carts, 100 of 
 each Bas&Ket Rail. This will cost a total of 66060G. Also purchase 25 of each 
 seed available. The seeds will cost 3750G. Now use Trick 10 and then head back 
 to the Easter Ruins. Use the raft to cross the river to where the bridge was 
 repaired. Now go into Hearflame Cave C which is located next to the Hot Spring. 
 On the top path of the cave you will find three blue chests, lined up in a row, 
 which contain a Blue Jewel, Yellow Jewel, and Blue Jewel. Next go down into 
 Heartflame Cave D to find a blue chest on the left side of the lake which will 
 contain a Yellow Jewel. While in the cave you can smash rocks to find some 
 Easter Ore for your shipping list, as well as some extra Plain Ore for storage.
 Once you have smashed the rocks in Cave C and Cave D head back to the Easter 
 Ruins using the raft. You will now have enough Jewels to unlock a sealed field 
 on the farm. I chose the one in the top left corner because it is spacious and 
 doesn't contain boulders. Take out all of your Yellow Jewels and place them on 
 the four alters at each corner of the field. Then put away all the other jewels 
 and Plain Ore. Ship all Volcano Ore and Easter Ore. Do not plant any of the 
 seeds today due to the guaranteed storm on the 8th. Before going to sleep begin 
 clearing the field of all dead plants, but chances are you won't finish. Be 
 sure to head to sleep early enough to wake up early after running out of PP.

 * Axe: 78 SP Until Next Level
 * Sickle: 1282 SP Until Next Level

 ### Summer, Day 02 (Tue.):

 Continue to clear your field of dead plants. When you finish clearing the field 
 you can pat down all tilled plots of land. Then head into town to use Trick 10. 
 Afterwards stop in your room to watch the Cooking Channel and make the dishes 
 available. Remember to make the summer only dishes. Then go into Heartflame 
 Cave C and head up to Heartflame Cave E. In Cave E you will find a Blue Jewel 
 down by the water. When you obtain the jewel you can smash rocks if you haven't 
 managed to get 120 Plain Ore by this point. Otherwise head back to your farm 
 and get the Blue Jewels out of the Item Box. You can then place them in the 
 altars inside of the Yellow Jewel field that you unlocked. After continue to 
 clean up the field and pat down any tilled plots. Once again go to sleep with 
 enough time to wake up early as it will be another busy day.

 * Axe: 78 SP Until Next Level
 * Sickle: 1236 SP Until Next Level

 ### Summer, Day 03 (Wed.):

 Continue to clean your field. Head out of the Ruins Entrance and get on your 
 buggy, if the buggy has not appeared walk in and out of the Ruins Entrance. Now 
 you can go see the Hermit to unlock some new areas of Heartflame Cave. The 
 sandstorm at the end of Cave E has also been cleared as a result of the Blue 
 Jewel seal being broken. Head out of that exit and continue across the 
 Heartflame Desert. Then continue north across the Path from Heartflame Desert 
 to Heartflame Plains and Mermaid Lake. Go into the Hermit's Hut and answer her 
 question with yes to clear the Fallen Trees path. Afterwards go west and 
 collect some Cacao and Papaya. Now begin to head back, on the way collecting 
 some Banana and Rambutan. When crossing the Heartflame Desert collect some 
 Pepino. You should only really need to collect one of each of these, as money 
 from the Scale Pack is almost meaningless at this point but you will want to 
 get them on the Shipping List. Once you have collected all of these head down 
 to the Heartflame Dunes and speak with the Fisherman in his hut. He will be the 
 only way that you can fish within Innocent Life. Now head over the Heartflame 
 Plains and begin fishing, it should only take a few minutes to hit MAX! 
 depending on your luck. Basically all you need to do is repetitively hit the 
 triangle button, as the time the line sits in the water is not relative to your 
 chance of catching a fish. When you hit MAX! go to Volcano Town to speak with 
 Jonathan and you will receive the Cluck-o-Matic! which allows you to buy 
 chicken on the World Ranch Channel. Go back to your farm and purchase 5 
 Chicken. Next go back into town and speak with Jonathan again to receive the 
 Baabaa-matic! which allows you to purchase sheep on the World Ranch Channel. 
 Once again return to your farm and this time buy 5 Sheep. Now go back to 
 Volcano Town and speak with Jonathan again to get the Moo-o-Matic. Again go 
 back to your farm and this time purchase 5 Cows. Now ship the contents of your 
 Scale Pack and take the Balloon Tent out of the Item Box. You can then head 
 over to the Fallen Trees Path via the raft. In Heartflame Cave F you will find 
 the Master's Axe, Master's Hoe, and a Red jewel. Proceed into Cave G and you 
 will obtain the Volcano Sickle, Blue Jewel, and Red Jewel. Afterward you can go 
 into Heartflame Cave G to collect a Red Jewel. Continue into Heartflame Cave I 
 to get Earth Power Sand. Now go into Heartflame Cave J and collect another 
 Earth Power Sand, a Yellow Jewel, and a Purple Jewel. Now use the Balloon 
 Tent's warp function by answers no then answering yes. Wake up early tomorrow.

 ### Summer, Day 04 (Thu.):

 Cook all the dishes unlocked from the fishing you did yesterday. Then put away 
 all the Jewels you obtained yesterday, the Iron Axe, Iron Sickle, and Iron Hoe. 
 Then clean up your field, but be sure to charge your Sickle by holding triangle 
 so that you get 2 SP for a single weed instead of 1 SP. Afterwards go to 
 Mushroom Forest 2 and collect one of each of the following mushrooms: Purple 
 Shimeji, Wood Ear, Enoki, Shimeji, and White Wood Ear. Now go back to your farm 
 and ship them. Next you should head down to the Storage Area and care for your 
 animals by talking to each of them once. Then convert all but one of the Eggs 
 and one of the Milk so you can get both of them for your Shipping List. 
 Livestock will provide substantial income on top of the profit from shipping 
 crops. Next visit the Shop-a-Million Vending Machines through the blue door to 
 the left of Franco's room and purchase 25 of each seed that you don't already 
 have. Hold off on purchasing the motor at this point in the game as there is no 
 dire need for it. Remember not to plant any seeds because of the guaranteed 
 storm on the 8th day. Now go to the Shop-a-Million to purchase the new items 
 for sale which will cost you 8900G. Afterwards speak with Jonathan again to 
 find out how to ride wild horses. Now go to the Heartflame Plains and speak 
 with the Fisherman. Answer yes to his question and then press triangle towards 
 a horse to whistle to them. Press triangle again to dismount from the horse. 
 When you have finished riding go back to your farm and prepare the Yellow and 
 Blue Jewel fields for planting. This will be easy with the charged Master's 
 Hoe. When you have tilled all the plots of land take out the Earth Power Sand 
 and use it on the plots that you could not till. When you finish this task you 
 can go to sleep.

 ### Summer, Day 05 (Fri.):

 Use today to catch up on things that you might have missed. An example would be 
 if you have failed to collect 120 Plain Ore do so today. Another good thing to 
 check is to see you have shipped all the gathered items in the past few days. 
 When you are positive you didn't miss anything clean up your field. Then go 
 down to care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards go to 
 the Shop-a-Million to purchase the new Bas&Ket items available for sale today 
 which will cost you 20300G.

 ### Summer, Day 06 (Sat.):

 Clean up your farm, then take care of your animals and ship their converted 
 goods. Today will be another day you can use to catch up on anything you are 
 behind on. Head over to the Shop-a-Million again today to purchase the items 
 that are available for sale today which will cost a total of 33800G. Don't 
 bother waking up early if you are all caught up.

 ### Summer, Day 07 (Sun.):

 Clear your farm of anything that may have appeared, then take care of your 
 animals and ship their converted goods. When you finish your farm work go into 
 town for maintenance with Dr. Hope. Answer no to Marcia's question. The rest of 
 the day can be used to catch up. Do not wake up early because tomorrow will be 
 a stormy day.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 6.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 01) Balloon Tent
 02) Auto Unit
 03) Bas&Ket 20S
 04) Bas&Ket Cart (2x)
 05) Bas&Ket Rail L (100x)
 06) Bas&Ket Rail I (100x)
 07) Easter Ore
 08) Azure Stone
 09) Blue Stone
 10) Red Stone
 11) Master's Axe
 12) Master's Hoe
 13) Volcano Sickle
 14) Earth Power Sand (2x)
 15) Bas&Ket 40H
 16) Bas&Ket Cart L (3x)
 17) Bas&Ket 60T
 18) Bas&Ket Cart H (5x)
 19) Convey-R DX
 20) Convey-R Carry (4x)
 21) Convey-R Box (4x)

 Jewels Attainable:
 ------------------
 01) Blue Jewel
 02) Yellow Jewel
 03) Blue Jewel
 04) Yellow Jewel
 05) Blue Jewel
 06) Red Jewel
 07) Blue Jewel
 08) Red Jewel
 09) Red Jewel
 10) Yellow Jewel
 11) Purple Jewel

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Summer, Day 08 (Mon.):

 Due to the storm daily tasks will be tedious today. Clean up your field and go 
 down to care for your animals and ship their converted goods. When you finish 
 watch the Cooking Channel and then cook all available dishes. Wake up early 
 tomorrow so that you have no problem getting all of your seeds planted.

 ### Summer, Day 09 (Tue.):

 Take your Seed Bags out of your item box and go down to the Seed Box. Plant all 
 of the seeds you have purchased within the Yellow field. When you finish head 
 down to the Shop-a-Million Vending Machines and buy 64 Rose Seeds. Plant the 
 Rose Seeds in the Blue Jewel field. When everything is planted you can pat down 
 any extra tilled plots. Afterwards care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods. 

 ### Summer, Day 10 (Wed.):

 Clean up your farm, and water your crops if you have not hit Level 3 in your 
 Watering Can. Then care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Summer, Day 11 (Thu.):

 Continue cleaning your farm up daily otherwise you will have no way to level up 
 your Sickle and Axe. Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. 

 ### Summer, Day 12 (Fri.):

 Today was a stormy day for me, storms are pretty much random but you should 
 expect another storm to hit during the summer. Clean up your field, and then 
 care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Summer, Day 13 (Sat.):

 When hit with a storm you will lose a majority of your Roses, when this happens 
 go down to the Shop-a-Million Vending Machines. I chose to purchase 27 more 
 Rose Seeds as well as 27 Pineapple Seeds. Plant both of these within the Blue 
 Jewel field. You can pat down the tilled spaces left from the storm, but in my 
 case I had lost so many that I ran out of PP while doing so. Afterwards go care 
 for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Summer, Day 14 (Sun.):

 Ship all of your Onions, and then clean up your field. Next you can continue to 
 pat down the rest of the tilled spaces that remain after the storm. When 
 finished care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards go 
 and see Dr. Hope for maintenance.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 7.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Summer, Day 15 (Mon.):

 Start your day by watching the Cooking Channel and cooking the dishes available 
 to you at this point. Next ship your Tomatoes, water your crops if needed, and 
 clean up your field. Then care for your animals and convert their goods. 
 Afterwards make your way to the Hermit's Hut and collect the following: Mock 
 Strawberry, Fig, and Peach. You can fill your Scale Pack with Peaches after 
 getting one of each of the others. This will help recoup money lost in the 
 storm. 

 ### Summer, Day 16 (Tue.):

 Ship your Sunflowers today. Unfortunately I was hit was another storm today. 
 Clean up your field and then ship your Tomatoes and Green Peas. Afterwards care 
 for your animals and ship their converted goods. You should wake up early 
 tomorrow in order to harvest everything.

 ### Summer, Day 17 (Wed.):

 Ship your Tomatoes, Squash, and Corn. Afterwards clean up your field and then 
 go care for your animals and ship their converted goods. If you have lost 
 nearly all of a certain crop to a storm you should plant another 25 of them 
 today, but make sure that you can harvest the crop before the end of the 
 season. For example I lost all of my Melon yesterday, and chances are you will 
 need to replant Roses, Pineapple, Melon, and possibly Watermelon. After 
 replanting I went to collect Cacao and Papaya to recoup income lost in the 
 storm.

 ### Summer, Day 18 (Thu.):

 Ship your Tomato and Watermelon, and then clean up your field. Upon finishing 
 farm work care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Today I 
 harvested more Papaya, Peaches, and Figs to help with lost revenue.

 ### Summer, Day 19 (Fri.):

 Ship your Tomatoes and clean up the field. Afterward you should care for your 
 animals and ship their converted goods. Next head into town to purchase the 
 rail items which will cost a total of 65500G.

 ### Summer, Day 20 (Sat.):

 Go up to your farm to ship your Tomatoes and Lemons. Then clean up your field. 
 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. At the end of the day I 
 collected more Figs and Mock Strawberries for additional income.

 ### Summer, Day 21 (Sun.):

 Clean up your field and then ship the Tomatoes and Corn. Next care for your 
 animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards you can head into town for 
 your maintenance. Masami will give you a Red Jewel upon completion of your 
 maintenance. Use these to unlock a sealed field. I chose to unlock the field 
 behind the lifts. You can then collect Rambutan, White Wood Ear, and Shimenji 
 for some additional income. Be sure to wake up early tomorrow.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 8.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 01) Convey-R DXPRO
 02) Carry SUPER (4x)

 Jewels Attainable:
 ------------------
 01) Red Jewel

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Summer, Day 22 (Mon.):

 Today will be a busy day due to the Red Door finally being unlocked. You should 
 head into the Ruins first thing. On the first floor you will find the Easter 
 Hammer and an Orange Jewel. The second floor will have a Purple Jewel, Purple 
 Jewel, Red Jewel, Red Jewel, and Red Jewel. You will find an Orange Jewel, 
 Water Crest, 999G, Green Jewel, and the Angel Ribbon on the third floor. After 
 collecting everything go back to your farm to Ship your Tomatoes, Pineapples, 
 and Lemons. Clean up your farm and then care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods. You can now take the Water Crest to the Hermit to receive the 
 Forest Crest in exchange. Afterwards go and meet the Mermaid at the Southwest 
 Bank of Mermaid Lake and she will open up the Mist Forest. Go to the Mist 
 Forest and get the Monsoon Watering Can out of the first blue chest. You will 
 need this to complete the game in the first wither. It will be late by the time 
 you get this item so begin to head back. You should collect the Blueberries and 
 Peaches before heading back. Remember to ship your Scale Pack before bed.

 ### Summer, Day 23 (Tue.):

 Another storm hit me today. Put away Masami's WC now that you have the Monsoon 
 Watering Can. Same thing goes for the Iron Hammer and Easter Hammer. Next ship 
 your Tomatoes and clean the field. You can break up the large stones today with 
 the Easter Hammer. Afterwards care for your animals and ship their converted 
 goods. When you finish watch the Cooking Channel and cook all dishes available.

 ### Summer, Day 24 (Wed.):

 Ship your Tomatoes and Lemons. Then go to your room to ship the Roses. Now care 
 for your animals and ship their converted goods. In order to make some extra 
 money which was lost in the storm I decided to plant 90 Squash Seeds in the Red 
 Jewel field. You can then collect some mushrooms and speak to the Hermit to 
 find a bit more about the main story. When finished ship your Scale Pack.

 ### Summer, Day 25 (Thu.):

 Another storm hit again today. The game seems to not want me to be able to ship 
 one of every crop for this season. Care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods.

 ### Summer, Day 26 (Fri.):

 Ship your Watermelon and Lemon. I have unfortunately lost all my Corn and 
 Tomato crops, but you should continue to ship them if you still have some. Now 
 clean up your farm. Next care for your animals and ship their converted goods.
 You should harvest some Blueberries and Pepino. Be sure to ship the Scale Pack.

 ### Summer, Day 27 (Sat.):

 Ship anything you can, and clean up the field. Care for your animals and ship 
 their converted goods. You can then collect some Mock Strawberries and Pepino.

 ### Summer, Day 28 (Sun.):

 Clean your field and ship any crops that have re-grown. Next care for your 
 animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards go into town so you can 
 receive your maintenance. Then head over to the Fire Spirit Cave to view the 
 incident that occurred. Now go and speak to Gallion upstairs in his home to 
 unlock the Earth Power Sand and Herbs. Wait for the shop to open and then 
 purchase 3 of the Earth Power Sand to use inside the cave. You can then head 
 back to the Vending Machines at the Easter Ruins to purchase 50 of both 
 Rosemary and Lavender Seeds. Also purchase the Convey-R DXPRO2. Now take out 
 the 3 Earth Power Sand, 3 Strange Moss, and the Rosemary Seeds and head to the 
 Fire Spirit Cave. Plant the Rosemary and then head back to your farm. You 
 should plant 25 Lavender Seeds and 5 Rosemary Seeds. You can now go to sleep.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 9.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 01) Easter Hammer
 02) Angel Ribbon
 03) Water Crest
 04) Forest Crest
 05) Convey-R DXPRO2

 Jewels Attainable:
 ------------------
 01) Orange Jewel
 02) Purple Jewel
 03) Orange Jewel
 04) Purple Jewel
 05) Red Jewel
 06) Green Jewel
 07) Red Jewel
 08) Red Jewel

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Summer, Day 29 (Mon.):

 Clean up your farm, and then care for your animals and ship their converted 
 goods. Next watch the Cooking Channel to see the final part and then make 
 everything available at this point. If you failed to put down Strange Moss in 
 the cave you will need to water the herbs in the Fire Spirit Cave daily. 
 Afterwards collect some Blueberries and Mock Strawberries. Ship the Scale Pack.

 ### Summer, Day 30 (Tue.):

 Ship anything you can and then clean your field. You can then care for your 
 animals and ship their converted goods. Continue to tend to the herbs in the 
 Fire Spirit Cave. Today I bought 3 Earth Power Sand to use on the farm. 
 Afterwards harvest some Peaches and ship them.

 ### Summer, Day 31 (Wed.):

 Clean up your farm and ship anything you can. Care for your animals and ship 
 their converted goods. Tend to your herbs in the Fire Spirit Cave. I bought 3 
 Earth Power Sand so that the area in front of the lifts was fully cleared of 
 unfertile land. 

 ### Summer, Day 32 (Thu.):

 Another storm hit me today, but luckily the Squash are ready for harvest. 
 Lemons will also be ready to be ship. After shipping go care for your animals 
 and ship their converted goods.

 ### Summer, Day 33 (Fri.):

 Clean up your field and ship anything you can. Care for your animals and ship 
 their converted goods. If you encounter a storm replant the Rosemary seeds in 
 the Fire Spirit Cave. When finished tending to the herbs go into the Shop-a-
 Million and purchase 100 Onion Seeds to plant in front of the lift. They will 
 be used to help level the Sickle.

 ### Summer, Day 34 (Sat.):

 Ship whatever you can and clean up the field. Next care for your animals and 
 ship their converted goods. Continue to care for your herbs. Afterwards 
 purchase quite a few Lavender Seeds and Rosemary Seeds because you can't get 
 them in the fall. This is a precaution against another storm hitting and 
 destroying the herbs. I recommend having 50 of each in storage, which should 
 not be a problem because seeds are cheap.

 ### Summer, Day 35 (Sun.):

 Another storm had hit me today. Clean up your field and ship anything you can. 
 Next care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Continue to care for 
 the herbs. Afterwards go to Dr. Hope's mansion for maintenance. You will learn 
 about the Mushroom Forest, but avoid harvesting Porcini if you encounter it 
 early. You will need to Porcini for an event next season. If you still don't 
 have Level 3 in your Watering Can you will need to achieve it before the end of 
 the next season. Otherwise you will need to wait for Winter Ring 2 before you 
 can progress the story. Be sure that Remove Garbage hasn't been set on Forte 
 because you need to level up your Sickle. Be sure to wake up early tomorrow.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 End of Week 10.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 ## Ring 1, Autumn


 ### Autumn, Day 01 (Mon.):

 Use your sickle to clear your field of every crop that has died due to season 
 changes. When you run out of PP go down to care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods. Next head into town to use Trick 10 and care for the herbs 
 while there. Afterwards head over to Shop-a-Million and purchase 25 of every 
 seed which will cost 3500G. Now go back to your farm and finish clearing the 
 dead crops with your Sickle. Upon finishing purchase 25 Cat's Tail Seeds from 
 the Vending Machines. Now plant all of the seeds. Put Kiwi, Tangerine, Carrots, 
 and Cosmos in the Red Jewel field. Everything else can go into the Yellow Jewel 
 field. Strange Moss will have re-grown if you desire to collect some more.

 ### Autumn, Day 02 (Tue.):

 Clean your field and then care for your animals and ship their converted goods. 
 You can ship any herbs that may have survived, if one didn't you should replant 
 a seed or two today. Afterwards care for your herbs in the Fire Spirit Cave.

 ### Autumn, Day 03 (Wed.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Next clean up your field. 
 Go into town if you need to water the herbs. Pawpaw will become ripe today so 
 find and harvest a tree. Remember to ship your Scale Pack before sleeping.

 ### Autumn, Day 04 (Thu.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Clean up your field and 
 go into town if you need to care for the herbs in the Fire Spirit Cave.

 ### Autumn, Day 05 (Fri.):

 Clean up your field and then care for your animals and ship their converted 
 goods. Afterwards make sure to care for your herbs in town if needed. You can 
 wake up early to harvest crops.

 ### Autumn, Day 06 (Sat.):

 Ship all of your Sweet Potato and then go to your room and ship all flowers and 
 herbs that have fully grown. Afterwards care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods. Go into town to care for your herbs. You will be harvesting 
 more crops tomorrow so wake up early.

 ### Autumn, Day 07 (Sun.):

 Ship all Carrots, Eggplant, Hot Peppers, and Green Peppers. Next care for your 
 animals and ship their converted goods. You can then go into town to care for 
 the herbs. Afterwards go to Dr. Hope's mansion for maintenance. After the scene 
 with Marcia go back inside and choose your style cat. 

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 11.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Autumn, Day 08 (Mon.):

 Clean up your field and then ship any flowers or herbs that are fully grown. 
 Next care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Now go into town and 
 check on your herbs in town, when you exit Marco will give his thanks by 
 upgrading Forte. Now that that is finished you can go collect a tree of Apples, 
 Chestnuts, and Olives. Then head back to your farm and ship the Scale Pack. 
 Afterwards you can plant the rest of the herbs in your Yellow Jewel field. Cook 
 the dish that required Eggplant before going to sleep.

 ### Autumn, Day 09 (Tue.):

 Go up to your farm and clean up your field. Next go down to care for your 
 animals and then ship their converted goods. When you have finished you are 
 free to do as you please for the rest of the day.

 ### Autumn, Day 10 (Wed.):

 Ship the Green Peppers and Hot Peppers. Then clean up the field and ship any 
 flowers that have fully grown. Next go care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods.

 ### Autumn, Day 11 (Thu.):

 Ship the Kiwi and clean up the field. Care for your animals and ship their 
 converted goods.

 ### Autumn, Day 12 (Fri.):

 Clean up the farm and ship any flowers that have fully grown. Then care for 
 your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Autumn, Day 13 (Sat.):

 Clean up the farm and ship all Tangerines, Green Peppers, and Hot Peppers. Care 
 for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Autumn, Day 14 (Sun.):

 Clean your farm and then care for your animals and ship their converted goods. 
 Then head into town for maintenance. You will learn of the Mushroom Cooking 
 Contest that will take place later in the season. Ship any flowers that have 
 fully grown.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 12.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Autumn, Day 15 (Mon.):

 Ship your Kiwi and then clean up the field. Next care for your animals and ship 
 their converted goods. Afterwards you can head into town to speak with Nana at 
 the Shop-a-Million. This will allow Porcini to begin growing tomorrow. Now go 
 to the Fallen Trees Path and collect the Matsutake. Harvest some Persimmon on 
 the way back to your farm. Ship the contents of your Scale Pack before bed.

 ### Autumn, Day 16 (Tue.):

 Ship your Hot Peppers, Green Peppers and Tangerines. Then clean up your fields. 
 Now care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards ship any 
 flowers that have fully grown today. Do not collect the Porcini today.

 ### Autumn, Day 17 (Wed.):

 Clean up your field then ship any flowers or herbs that have fully grown. Then 
 care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Once again do not collect 
 the Porcini today as it has not grown enough yet.

 ### Autumn, Day 18 (Thu.):

 Ship any flowers that have fully grown today and then clean up your field. Next 
 care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Today you can go and 
 collect 100g of Porcini for Nana in Mushroom Forest 1. Then go to the Shop-a-
 Million to give them to her. Afterwards return to Mushroom Forest 1 and collect 
 some Porcini for your Gathered Items list. Ship the Scale Pack before sleeping.

 ### Autumn, Day 19 (Fri.):

 Clean up your farm and then ship your Green Peppers, Hot Peppers, Kiwi, and 
 Tangerine. Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards you 
 can ship any flowers and herbs that have fully grown.

 ### Autumn, Day 20 (Sat.):

 Clean up your farm. Then care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Autumn, Day 21 (Sun.):

 Clean up your farm and then ship all herbs and flowers that have re-grown. 
 Afterwards care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Next go to Dr. 
 Hope's mansion for maintenance.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 13.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Autumn, Day 22 (Mon.):

 Clean up your farm and then ship Tangerines, Hot Peppers and Green Peppers. 
 Then care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards you can 
 ship all flowers and herbs that have fully grown.

 ### Autumn, Day 23 (Tue.):

 Ship your Kiwi and then clean up the field. Afterwards care for your animals 
 and ship their converted goods. Then ship all flowers and herbs.

 ### Autumn, Day 24 (Wed.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship all of your flowers 
 and herbs that have re-grown and then clean up your field.

 ### Autumn, Day 25 (Thu.):

 Clean up your field and then ship your Tangerines, Hot Peppers, and Green 
 Peppers. Next care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards 
 you can ship all flowers and herbs that have re-grown.

 ### Autumn, Day 26 (Fri.):

 Clean up your field and then care for your animals and ship their converted 
 goods. Afterwards you can ship all flowers and herbs that are fully grown.

 ### Autumn, Day 27 (Sat.):

 Clean up your farm then ship your Kiwi. Next go down to care for your animals 
 and ship their converted goods. Afterwards you can ship all flowers and herbs 
 that are fully grown. I chose to wake up early for the first time in a while 
 for the Mushroom Cooking Contest, so I would have on trouble with harvesting.

 ### Autumn, Day 28 (Sun.):

 Ship all of your Hot Peppers, Green Peppers and Tangerines. Then clean up your 
 field and ship any flowers that have fully grown. Afterwards you can care for 
 your animals and ship their converted goods. You can now head into town for 
 maintenance. Wait around town until 16:00 and then you can go into Masami's 
 Restaurant / Bar. Speak with Max to get some Earth Power Sand as a reward for 
 helping Nana win the contest. Next speak with everyone else.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 14.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Autumn, Day 29 (Mon.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Then clean up your farm 
 and ship all flowers and herbs that have fully grown. 

 ### Autumn, Day 30 (Tue.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Then clean up your farm 
 and ship all flowers and herbs that have fully grown. 

 ### Autumn, Day 31 (Wed.):

 Clean up your farm then ship your Hot Peppers, Green Peppers, Tangerine, and 
 Kiwi. Next head down to care for your animals and ship their converted goods. 
 Afterwards you can ship any flowers and herbs that are fully grown.

 ### Autumn, Day 32 (Thu.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Then clean up your farm 
 and ship all flowers and herbs that have fully grown. 

 ### Autumn, Day 33 (Fri.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Then clean up your farm 
 and ship all flowers and herbs that have fully grown. 

 ### Autumn, Day 34 (Sat.):

 Ship your Green Peppers, Hot Peppers, and Tangerine. Clean up your farm and 
 then care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Afterwards you can 
 ship all flowers and herbs that have fully grown.

 ### Autumn, Day 35 (Sun.):

 Clean up your farm and then ship your Kiwi. Next care for your animals and ship 
 their converted goods. Afterwards you can ship any flowers and herbs that have 
 fully grown. Next go into town for maintenance. If you wait around in town 
 until 16:00 so that you can hear Dorothy's request. She will be in her kitchen 
 and will ask for assistance with the cakes for the Christmas Party. If you have 
 been following the guide you will already have seen all 10 parts of her TV show 
 which is the prerequisite for assisting her. She will pay for your assistance.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 15.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 ## Ring 1, Winter


 ### Winter, Day 01 (Mon.):

 Use Forte to equip the Power Upgrade so that you will be able to complete all 
 farm work for today. Go down into Barn Room 2 and get Spirit Water from either 
 grazing area. Then use it on your fields to make them useable for the remainder 
 of the season. Once you have done this go and care for your animals and ship 
 their converted goods. Now go into town to use your Sickle on the herbs in the 
 Fire Spirit Cave. Chances are you will still fall short of Level 3 but don't 
 worry too much about this because you will get it at the start of next season.
 When you finish go upstairs and speak with Gallion in his home to receive 20 
 Poinsettia Seed. Now head back to your farm and use the Vending Machines to 
 purchase 465 Poinsettia Seeds and 140 Kale Seeds. This will be enough to fill 
 your fields. Plant the 140 Kale Seeds in front of the lifts and the Poinsettia 
 in the Jewel fields. When you finish this colossal task you can go to sleep as 
 it should be late. Do not wake up early unless you need to failed to finish 
 everything today.

 ### Winter, Day 02 (Tue.):

 You won't really need to be cleaning up your fields as they will be fully 
 planted at this point. Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 03 (Wed.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 04 (Thu.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 05 (Fri.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 06 (Sat.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 07 (Sun.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Then go into town to 
 receive your maintenance.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 16.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Winter, Day 08 (Mon.):

 Ship your Kale, and then replant the entire area with more Poinsettias. If you 
 encounter a storm like I did replant anything you lost tomorrow. Don't bother 
 with any more Kale because it is much easier to use the Herbal Channel. Then go 
 care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 09 (Tue.):

 Replant the field with Poinsettia Seeds if you had a storm yesterday. After 
 today you do not really need to worry about planting more Poinsettias. Your 
 profits by the end of this season will be more than needed to complete the 
 optional task after completing the main storyline. Even if you encounter 
 another storm or two it should not be a problem. Now go down to your room and 
 make Kale Juice. Then care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 10 (Wed.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 11 (Thu.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 12 (Fri.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods.

 ### Winter, Day 13 (Sat.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.


 ### Winter, Day 14 (Sun.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.
 Then go into town for maintenance with Dr. Hope.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 17.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Winter, Day 15 (Mon.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 16 (Tue.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 17 (Wed.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 18 (Thu.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 19 (Fri.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 20 (Sat.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 21 (Sun.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.
 Next go into town for maintenance and be sure to collect Lily Bells on the way 
 into town. Ship your Scale Pack.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 18.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Winter, Day 22 (Mon.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.

 ### Winter, Day 23 (Tue.):

 Care for your animals and ship their converted goods. Ship your Poinsettia.
 Next go into town and wait for 20:00. Then speak with Dorothy and answer yes.

 ### Winter, Day 24 (Wed.):

 Speak with Marlene to receive another Seed Bag. Then speak with everyone else. 
 Next speak with Dr. Hope a few times and answer yes. Afterwards go back to the 
 farm to get the Forest Crest. Then go into the Giant Forest and speak with the 
 Nature Sprites. In Giant Forest C get the Giant's Axe and Green Jewel. Continue 
 through the Forest Spirit Path to the River Path to Mermaid tower. Grab the 
 Earth Hammer before riding the clam shell to Mermaid Tower. Then go up the 
 stairs on the right side. Next go to the Mermaid Tower Entrance and get the 
 Enchanted Hoe. Go back inside and push the statues onto the blue tiles. Do the 
 same thing on Floor 3. Walk back up the other stairs on Floor 2 to obtain Blue 
 Jewels. Then ride the clam shell to the other side to solve the puzzle. Do so 
 by stepping on the tiles in the following order: top right, bottom left, top 
 left, bottom right. Go up the stairs to Floor 4 and ride the clam shell to the 
 other side to get more Blue Jewels. Next go to the Hermit at the altar. 
 Afterwards go back to the Giant Forest A to collect a Red Jewel, Green Jewel, 
 and another Red Jewel. Then in Giant Forest B you will find a Red Jewel, Green 
 Jewel, Orange Jewel, and Purple Jewel. Go back to the Mist forest and grab the 
 Red Jewel on the way back to your farm. Place the 4 Purple Jewels the field in 
 the bottom right of your farm. Then place the 4 Green Jewels in the top right 
 field. You can now put away the other Jewels and Level 2 items.

 ### Winter, Day 25 (Thu.):

 Use the charged Giant's Axe to get Giant wood. Then cook the final two dishes.
 This will complete both lists. Care for your animals and ship their converted 
 goods. Ship your Poinsettia. Next go to Heartflame Cave H and go through the 
 Green Door. On the Volcano Spiral Path 1 you will find a Yellow Jewel, Purple 
 Jewel, Flame Sickle, and another Yellow Jewel. On Volcano Spiral Path 2 you 
 will find a Yellow Jewel, Purple Jewel, Yellow Jewel, and Purple Jewel. On 
 Volcano Spiral Path 3 you will find a Red Jewel, Orange Jewel, Red Jewel, and 
 Orange Jewel. On Volcano Spiral Path 4 you will find a Red Jewel, Red Jewel, 
 and the Fire Crest. Next go to Heartflame Cave D and use the Green Door to get 
 into Heartflame Cave K to get the Yellow Jewel and Blue Jewel. Continue into 
 Heartflame Cave L to get the Cool Pins. Now go to the hole in East Lake and 
 drop down. Grab the two Blue Jewels. Then put the Fire Crest on Ice Grail.

 ### Winter, Day 26 (Fri.):

 You will be given 10 Earth Power Sand for saving the island. After speaking 
 with everyone head down the stairs. You have now completed the main storyline 
 and when you reload your saved game it will be the 27th.

 ### Winter, Day 27 (Sat.):

 Take out the rest of your Jewels and unlock all sealed fields. Be sure to make 
 one of the fields orange to unlock the final color doors. Ship your Poinsettia, 
 and then you can sell your animals because you will have over 500,000G and will 
 have no need for immediate income anymore. Next visit Vita to receive your 
 final present from Dr. Hope, the Life Arms.

 ### Winter, Day 28 (Sun.):

 Go to the Wasteland Farm and accept the Fire Spirit's challenge if you wish. 
 You will have two years to ship 1000 crops without automation, which is 
 extremely easy. Ship your Poinsettias.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 19.

 Tools and Items Attainable:
 ---------------------------
 01) Seed Bag
 02) Giant's Axe
 03) Earth Hammer
 04) Enchanted Hoe
 05) Flame Sickle
 06) Fire Crest
 07) Cool Pins

 Jewels Attainable:
 ------------------
 01) Green Jewel
 02) Blue Jewel
 03) Blue Jewel
 04) Blue Jewel
 05) Blue Jewel
 06) Blue Jewel
 07) Blue Jewel
 08) Red Jewel
 09) Green Jewel
 10) Red Jewel
 11) Red Jewel
 12) Green Jewel
 13) Orange Jewel
 14) Purple Jewel
 15) Red Jewel
 16) Yellow Jewel
 17) Purple Jewel
 18) Yellow Jewel
 19) Yellow Jewel
 20) Purple Jewel
 21) Yellow Jewel
 22) Purple Jewel
 23) Red Jewel
 24) Orange Jewel
 25) Red Jewel
 26) Orange Jewel
 27) Red Jewel
 28) Red Jewel
 29) Yellow Jewel
 30) Blue Jewel
 31) Blue Jewel
 32) Blue Jewel

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ### Winter, Day 29 (Mon.):

 Use the Earth Power Sand to make the entire farm usable. Ship your Poinsettias.

 ### Winter, Day 30 (Tue.):

 Ship your Poinsettias and put away all of your items except the Monsoon 
 Watering Can and any remaining Earth Power Sand. Get Spirit Water and then head 
 to the Wasteland Farm. Water the entire field and use Earth Power Sand that is 
 left over from your farm. At 10:00 go into town and buy 40 Earth Power Sand. Go 
 back to your farm and put away the Monsoon Watering Can and then use all of the 
 Earth Power Sand. It will take two trips.

 ### Winter, Day 31 (Wed.):

 Ship your Poinsettia. Then head into town and wait for the Shop-a-Million to 
 open. Purchase 40 Earth Power Sand and use them on the Wasteland Farm.

 ### Winter, Day 32 (Thu.):

 Ship your Poinsettia. Then head into town and wait for the Shop-a-Million to 
 open. Purchase 15 Earth Power Sand and use them on the Wasteland Farm.

 ### Winter, Day 33 (Fri.):

 Ship your Poinsettias. Use today to finish up anything missed this week.

 ### Winter, Day 34 (Sat.):

 Ship your Poinsettias. Use today to finish up anything missed this week.

 ### Winter, Day 35 (Sun.):

 Ship your Poinsettias. Make sure Forte isn't set to Remove Garbage.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 End of Week 20.

 No new items are available at this point.

 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ## Ring 2


 The first thing you will want to do is level up your Sickle to Level 3. Then 
 you will want to ship all the herbs you couldn't buy during Ring 1. After you 
 have done that you will want to complete the Fire Spirit's challenge which can 
 be finished before the end of spring. Then get the Lily which will grow near 
 the Hot Spring in the middle of spring. You can give the Cool Pins and Angel 
 Ribbon to whoever you want as the game is already over. To finish the Gathered 
 Items list you will need to assist Sharon with the Mushroom Cooking Contest, 
 she will ask for your help on the 22nd of autumn. The Black Truffle will be 
 located in Mushroom Forest 2. You will have enough to help her on the 23rd 
 because she only requested 50g. Then after giving her the 50g go back and 
 collect one for the Gathered Items list. You will get an Orange Jewel for 
 getting this for her.


